Evolution in Varhn is not part of the natural process as Divinity is a fact of life.

Divinity exists from concepts and the realization of such, the first concept is creation.
 - a god is the embodiment and personification of these concepts 
 
RACES

Humanity - Created by <Not yet named>, god of self
-reason for creation: to create a neutral affinity self aware race with a stong concept of self reliance and self importance

Awakened - Created by <not yet named> godess of purpose 
- reason for creation: an experiment in a race of sungular purposed peoples within a caste based society

earth touched - created by several gods each with an animal aspect.
- reason for creation: a desire for companionship rather than as an experiment or continuation of self.

Death touched - Unnatural
- reason for creation: sometimes fate or sheer will intervene with the process of life and death in such cases a member of any other race re-awakens with the fatal wound
  his or her only outward sign of having died.
  
  wood folk - twin gods of community created two physically differing races both with a strong communal nature and a welcoming demeanor.
- reason for creation <not yet decided>

Magic sources and affinities

- Divine: the most powerful source of magic, Divine magic is a being's capability to channel their god's will referred to as Aether

- self- will and temperance, imagination and knowledge. Whatever the method this form of magic is channeled by, it is measured in a bieng's ability to impose their will on realiy referred to as Aura

- Enviremental: the least powerful but easiest to channel form of magic, this form of magic has the lowest amount of drawback(to one's self that is) everyone has an innate connection or affinity to an environmental factor those who capitalize on this measure their power in the ability to control a given environmental factor referred to as Attunement

Magic utilization and combination

- Just as one form of mundane energy can be transformed (law of thermodynamics) so to can magical engergy (reffered to as the Law of Arcanodynamics)

- divine energy naturally tends to transform into environmental energy

- environmental energy can be used to augment or channel self

- self energy can be ussed to augment or channel divine

-the cycle is difficult but not impossible to reverse

-mundane and arcane energy can be used to fuel each other

Nations:


Taklovia: roughly analogous to norse combined with russian Tzarist cultures

Republic of Steel: Victorian era britain and western europe analogue

Death Mongers: a group seeking power through the Death touch.

Kingdom of Nautica: another victorian era analogue focusing more on naval exploits than land based development

arcane protectorate: magic centred nation roughly analogous of ancient Rome and Greece

the Refuge - a rural nation that favors farming and trade

Aegis Union- A nation focusing more on mundane technology over magical exploits, militaristic. roughly analogous to early 1900's prussia and USA

there are neutral unaffiliate states as well

Wilderness- Not a nation of its own right. populated enough to have a distinct and different culture however.

Language came of the gods, and there is one common language between all races which is used as a trade language.

Core and immutable concepts and gods

Creation
time
life
death
war
peace
law
chaos
light and dark
eternity


A note on magic
- Magic is not without consequence and has side effects

environmental magic pollutes based on the element being augmented, fire creates more ash, ice causes more severe winters and so on.
arcane magic drains its caster in a similar mental fashion to how physical work drains the worker
divine magic can only be channeled by a being with a link to the diety they are channeling the will of, and only should it fall within the diety's desires.

it is possible however to channel electricity into environmental energy, and through what is referred to as the law of acanodynamics to "step up" the type of energy



