Weapons

Arming sword - often mistitled a "Longsword" the arming sword is a one handed slashing and peircing weapon which can also be used to pommel strike making it exceptionally versatile in the right hands, these are seen as an archaiac and anachronistic choice

Longsword often mistitled as a "greatsword" though it encompasses such bulky weapons, a longsword is, simply put, a sword that is too long in blade and handle to be held with one hand as effectively and often utilizes both hands for all but the strongest of weilders. a longsword in current era Varhn is a long thin bladed implement such as a sciovana or a straightsword, though anachronistic varieties such as the hand-and-a-half sword, or the traditional Knight's longsword are still used in places.

straightsword - a term for a sword that is thicker in blade than a rapier or smallsword, a straightsword is as much a cutting tool as it is a peircing tool varieties such as the cutlass and sabre which, though curved, provide the same function exist.

Rapier- a thinner bladed sword with excellent reach and speed, its speed only rivalled by the smallsword, the rapier is the fencing weapon of choice in most societies.

smallsword- to call this a blade would barely be accurate, though it has an edge it is not a viable cutting implement due to it's narrow profile. however, its reach and peircing ability are second only to the rapier, which the smallsword's speed and agility outclass.

"lock firearm" - a collective term for a mundane firing mechanism on a powder fuelled projectile weapon. the locks which these pistols are triggered by will be described after the gun section as they have different modifiers.
"Action firearm" a collective term for a mundane firearm which uses a cartridge contained within the gun itself (usually paper or rocketball) 
"Arcano firearm" a collective term for a focal device which triggers a cartrige or powder load via environmental channeling instead of a mechanism
a firearm may be of 3 different varieties- Arcano, Lock, or for those on the bleeding edge of technology, Action

Mechanisms and Calibers
- damage from a gun is less about how big the weapon is and more about how much power is behind the bullet, (each mechanism and caliber will be fleshed out at a date when dice mechanics are decided)

Medical tonics and treatments.
Laudenum - a moderate strength painkiller used often by surgeons and psychologists alike. addictive and weakening if mixed improperly
Aqua Vitae- alcohol, arsenic, and fevergrass Aqua Vitae is a potent curative for diseases though if mixed improperly, toxic.
Vital Tincture - while nothinng can truly heal instantaniously, not even magic, Vital Tincture can improve a persons natural healing capacity by double, or half it when mixed improperly
Aura Tonic - most painkillers are unable to remedy pains and aches caused by use of aura magic, this tonic is the one known painkiller capable of remedying all but the most mentally strained via magic. if mixed improperly will cause additional drowsyness and potential loss of memory which, oddly enough, makes the improperly mixed variation almost as desirable.
Pain pills- low strength painkillers that help one get through a grueling work day or long slog through rough terrain. if mixed improperly they are completely impotent and have no effect.





Armour, clothing and Accessories

Cuirass - a metal chestplate covering both front and back, the cuirass gives the wearer unparalelled protection from all but the most penetrating of strikes.

Armoured coat - a coat with chain links sewn in and steel plates protecting vital areas, this armour is commonly used by footmen and guardsmen alike.

Plated clothing - while not truyly armour in itself, plated clothing has armour sewn in, in such a way that it protects the wearer from certain vital strikes.

helm - a catchall term for a protective headgear covering at the least the upper skull and some even going as far as to partially protect the neck. a helm protects the area it covers in a similarly protective manner to a cuirass

winter coat - a protective overgarment that insulates the wearer from extreme cold and cold exposure, though usually of negligable armour value these are indespensable to northern travel and lifestyles.

pauper's clothing: rags and torn outfits, usually thrown away by someone more upstanding in society, while these are free for characters they have a penalty when dealing with anyone above <insert wealth rating> on they other hand they improve social circumstances when dealing with destitute people.

worker's clothing, usually well worn, these cloths often include paperboy caps, denim clothing, and other cheap and easily produced garments. often worn by the newly emerging working class hence their name.

merchant's clothing- well tailored and sharp, these clothes are not as rich as that of a nobleperson but still very much in with the times as it were. these clothes give a bonus to interactions with anyone above worker level income, however depending on the demeanor of the person wearing said garments it may impose a penalty when dealing with workers or the destitute.

nobleperson's clothing - the highest in fashion, anyone wearing these while on their own is a prime target for destitute pickpockets and the disdain of the working class. merchants will tend to try to prioritize business with the wearer of these however as money talks. other noblepeople will tend to pay more attention to the wearer as well.

hot weather clothing: while not as protective against the elements as a winter coat, this light and layered garment will help stave away heatstroke and adverse hot weather conditions.


Gear:
Chemistry Lab - necessary for a chemist, chiurgeon or alchemist to do their trade. reagents herbs and catalysts not included (cost x units of currency for 1 week of supplies)
Portable chemistry kit - nowhere near as complete as a true lab, this kit however allows the processing of reagents that have been specially prepared for the use of such a device, albeit more difficult due to varying feild conditions. these can also be used to analyze anything found on the spot, making them much more useful for those in the forensic or investigative careers.

Forge- various different types of forges exist, from artificing and delecate goldsmithing, to iron and steelworking.
"portable forge" a bellows and a high temperature withstanding metal box, only useful for feild repairs but far better than having no tools whatsoever.

Medical office/small hospital - a medical facility proper, this "lab" contains all the necissary tools to perform any number of medical tasks, while it does contain some supplies necessary to perform chemistry, it is only suitable for pharmeceutical needs.
Field Medical kit - necessary for treating dangerous or potentially infectious wounds while away from a hospital proper, not nearly well stocked enough for surgery, this bag contains bandages, various implements including a small cauterizing iron, forceps, and Aqua Vitae to help prevent infection. and adds (insert bonus here) for purposes of recovering from injury



